docs/README.rst, before:

.. contents::

.. image:: http://jenkins.plone.org/job/kgs-plone.app.contenttypes-plone-5.0-python-2.7/badge/icon
    :target: http://jenkins.plone.org/job/kgs-plone.app.contenttypes-plone-5.0-python-2.7/

.. image:: https://pypip.in/d/plone.app.contenttypes/badge.png
    :target: https://crate.io/packages/plone.app.contenttypes

.. image:: https://pypip.in/v/plone.app.contenttypes/badge.png
    :target: https://crate.io/packages/plone.app.contenttypes


plone.app.contenttypes documentation
====================================

Introduction
------------



plone.app.contenttypes offers default content types for Plone based on Dexterity. This package replaces ``Products.ATContenttypes`` and will provide the default-types in Plone 5.

It contains the following types:

* Folder
* Document
* News item
* File
* Image
* Link
* Event (Using behaviors from plone.app.event)
* Collection

The main difference from a users perspective is that these types are extendable through-the-web. This means you can add or remove fields and behaviors using the control-panel "Dexterity Content Types" (``/@@dexterity-types``).

The aim is to mimick the default-types as closely as possible.

plone.app.contenttypes has been merged into the Plone 5.0 branch and will be shipped with the next Plone release: https://dev.plone.org/ticket/12344

**Warning: Using plone.app.contenttypes on a site with existing content requires migrating the sites content. Please see the chapter "Migration". It can be used on a new site without problems.**


Compatibility
-------------

Version 1.1b3 is tested with Plone 4.3.x. The versions of branch 1.1.x will stay compatible with Plone 4.3.x.

For support of Plone 4.1 and 4.2 please use version 1.0.x. Please note that they do not provide the full functionality.

The versions 1.2.x of the master-branch are compatible with Plone 5 and plone.app.widgets.


Installation
------------

Add this line in the eggs section of your ``buildout.cfg``

.. code:: ini

    eggs =
        ...
        plone.app.contenttypes

If you have a Plone site with mixed Archetypes and Dexterity content use the extra requirement ``atrefs``.

.. code:: ini

    eggs =
        ...
        plone.app.contenttypes [atrefs]

This will also install the package `plone.app.referenceablebehavior <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.app.referenceablebehavior>`_ that allows you to reference dexterity-based content from archetypes-based content. You will have to enable the behavior ``plone.app.referenceablebehavior.referenceable.IReferenceable`` for all types that need to be referenced by Archetypes-content.


What happens to existing content?
---------------------------------

If you install plone.app.contenttypes in a existing site all Archetypes-based content of the default types still exists and can be viewed but can't be edited. On installation plone.app.contenttypes removes the type-definitions for the old default-types like this:

.. code:: xml

    <object name="Document" remove="True" />

They are then replaced by new Definitions:

.. code:: xml

    <object meta_type="Dexterity FTI" name="Document" />

To make the existing content editable again you need to migrate it to Dexterity (please see the section on migration) or uninstall plone.app.contenttypes (see the section on uninstalling).

Archetypes-based content provided by add-ons (e.g. Products.PloneFormGen) will still work since only the default-types are replaced.

If you install plone.app.contenttypes on a fresh site (i.e. when no content has been edited or added) the usual default-content (Events, News, Members...) will be created as dexterity-content.


Uninstalling
------------

To remove plone.app.contenttypes and return full functionality to old content and restore the AT-based default-types you have to install the import step "Types Tool" of the current base profile. Follow the following steps:

* in the ZMI navigate to portal_setup and the tab "import"
* in "Select Profile or Snapshot" leave "Current base profile (<Name of your Plonesite>)" selected. This is usually Products.CMFPlone
* select the Types Tool (usually Step 44)
* click "import selected steps"

Any content you created based on plone.app.contenttypes will not be editable until you reinstall plone.app.contenttypes.



Dependencies
------------

* ``plone.app.dexterity >= 2.0.7``. Dexterity is shipped with Plone 4.3.x. Version pinns for Dexterity are included in Plone 4.2.x. For Plone 4.1.x you need to pin the correct version for Dexterity in your buildout. See `Installing Dexterity on older versions of Plone <http://developer.plone.org/reference_manuals/external/plone.app.dexterity/install.html#installing-dexterity-on-older-versions-of-plone>`_.

* ``plone.dexterity >= 2.2.1``. Olders version of plone.dexterity break the rss-views because plone.app.contenttypes uses behaviors for the richtext-fields.

* ``plone.app.event >= 1.1b1``. This provides the behaviors used for the event-type.

* ``plone.app.portlets >= 2.5a1``. In older version the event-portlet will not work with the new event-type.

These are the version-pinns for Plone 4.3.3:

.. code:: ini

    [buildout]
    versions = versions

    [versions]
    plone.app.event = 1.1.1
    plone.app.portlets = 2.5.1

Plone-versions before 4.3.3 need to pinn more packages:

.. code:: ini

    [buildout]
    versions = versions

    [versions]
    plone.dexterity = 2.2.1
    plone.app.dexterity = 2.0.11
    plone.schemaeditor = 1.3.5
    plone.app.event = 1.1b1
    plone.app.portlets = 2.5.1


Migration
---------

To migrate your existing content from Archetypes to Dexterity use the form at ``/@@atct_migrator``.

For migrations to work you need at least ``Products.contentmigration = 2.1.9`` and ``plone.app.intid`` (part of Plone since Plone 4.1.0).


Migrating Archetypes-based content to plone.app.contenttypes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

plone.app.contenttypes can migrate the following default types:

* Document
* Event
* File
* Folder
* Image
* Link
* News Item
* Collection

The following non-default types will also be migrated:

* The AT-based Event-type provided by plone.app.event
* The DX-based Event-type provided by plone.app.event
* The Event-type provided by plone.app.contenttypes until version 1.0
* News Items with blobs (provoded by https://github.com/plone/plone.app.blob/pull/2)
* Files and Images without blobs
* AT-based collection provided by plone.app.collection

Migrations that are coming in future versions:

* from ATTopic to Collections

Please note that migrating versions of content is not supported. Only the current state of items is migrated without any content- or workflow-history.


Migrating content that is translated with LinguaPlone
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since LinguaPlone does not support Dexterity you need to migrate from LinguaPlone to plone.app.multilingual (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.app.multilingual). The migration from Products.LinguaPlone to plone.app.multilingual should happen **before** the migration from Archetypes to plone.app.contenttypes. For details on the migration see http://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.app.multilingual#linguaplone-migration


Migrating from old versions of plone.app.contenttypes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before version 1.0a2 the content-items did not implement marker-interfaces.  They will break in newer versions since the views are now registered for these interfaces (e.g. ``plone.app.contenttypes.interfaces.IDocument``). To fix this you can call the view ``/@@fix_base_classes`` on your site-root.

Since plone.app.contenttypes 1.1a1, the Collection type uses the new Collection behavior and the Event type utilizes behaviors from `plone.app.event <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.app.event>`_. In order to upgrade:

1) First run the default profile (``plone.app.contenttypes:default``) or reinstall plone.app.contenttypes
2) Then run the upgrade steps.


Migrating default-content that was extended with archetypes.schemaextender
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The migration should warn you if any of your types are extended with archetypes.schemaextender. The data contained in these fields will be lost.

You need to implement a custom migration for your types and dexterity-behaviors for the functionality provided by the schemaextenders. This is an advanced development task and beyond the scope of this documentation.


Migrating custom content
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Custom content-types will not be touched by the migration plone.app.contenttypes and will continue to work as expected.

Future versions of plone.app.contenttypes will have with a form that allows you to migrate old custom Archetypes-content to Dexterity (you'll have to create the Dexterity-types before) .

However if you'd like to migrate your content-types to Dexterity before this feature is completed you might want to have a look at the code of plone.app.contenttypes.migration.migration.NewsItemMigrator as a blueprint for a migration.


Migrating to folderish objects or change base class for any dexterity type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Migration non folderish object to folderish has few steps.

Step 1: Enable folderish types
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

See `Using folderish types`_


Step 2: Update base class for existing objects
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

If you changed the base-class of existing types you might also want to upgrade the base-class of existing objects. You can use the following form for this: `PORTAL_URL/@@base_class_migrator_form`.

On this you will see checkboxes with class names and the amount of objects that are going to be updated. Select classes that you want to update and click on button `Update`.

If the migration was successful you see the info box with number of successfully updated objects or a warning with number of not updated objects.

This form can be used to change the base-class of any dexterity-types instances.

Widgets
-------

When used in Plone 4.x plone.app.contenttypes uses the default z3c.form widgets. All widgets work as they used to with Archetypes except for the keywords-widget for which a simple linesfield is used.

It is recommended to use ``plone.app.widgets`` to switch to the widgets that will be used in Plone 5.


How to use with plone.app.widgets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO


How to override widgets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To override the default keywords-widgets with a nicer widget you can use the package `collective.z3cform.widgets <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/collective.z3cform.widgets>`_.

Add ``collective.z3cform.widgets`` to your ``buildout`` and in your own package register the override in your ``configure.zcml``:

.. code:: xml

    <adapter factory=".subjects.SubjectsFieldWidget" />

Then add a file ``subjects.py``

.. code:: python

    # -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
    from collective.z3cform.widgets.token_input_widget import TokenInputFieldWidget
    from plone.app.dexterity.behaviors.metadata import ICategorization
    from plone.app.z3cform.interfaces import IPloneFormLayer
    from z3c.form.interfaces import IFieldWidget
    from z3c.form.util import getSpecification
    from z3c.form.widget import FieldWidget
    from zope.component import adapter
    from zope.interface import implementer


    @adapter(getSpecification(ICategorization['subjects']), IPloneFormLayer)
    @implementer(IFieldWidget)
    def SubjectsFieldWidget(field, request):
        widget = FieldWidget(field, TokenInputFieldWidget(field, request))
        return widget

Once you install ``collective.z3cform.widgets`` in the quickinstaller, the new widget will then be used for all types.


Information for Addon-Developers
--------------------------------

Design decisions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The schemata for the types File, Image and Link are defined in xml-files using ``plone.supermodel``. This allows the types to be editable trough the web. The types Document, News Item, Folder and Event have no schemata at all but only use behaviors to provide their fields.


Installation as a dependency from another product
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want to add plone.app.contenttypes as a dependency from another products use the profile ``plone-content`` in your ``metadata.xml`` to have Plone populate a new site with DX-based default-content.

.. code:: xml

    <metadata>
      <version>1</version>
        <dependencies>
            <dependency>profile-plone.app.contenttypes:plone-content</dependency>
        </dependencies>
    </metadata>

If you use the profile ``default`` then the default-content in new sites will still be Archetypes-based. You'll then have to migrate that content using the migration-form ``@@atct_migrator`` or delete it by hand.


Using folderish types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want all types folderish you need to depend on the profile ``folderish`` in your own ``metadata.xml``.

.. code:: xml

    <metadata>
      <version>1</version>
        <dependencies>
            <dependency>profile-plone.app.contenttypes:folderish</dependency>
        </dependencies>
    </metadata>

You can also enable this profile by hand by applying the `folderish` profile:

- Go to portal_setup->Import;
- Select `Plone default content-types (Folderish behavior) - dexterity`
- Click  `Import all steps`

You can also migrate your existing objects to folderish types. For details see `Step 2: Update base class for existing objects`_


Extending the types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You have several options:

1. Extend the types through-the-web by adding new fields or behaviors in the types-controlpanel ``/@@dexterity-types``.

2. Extend the types with a custom type-profile that extends the existing profile with behaviors, or fields.

   You will first have to add the type to your ``[yourpackage]/profiles/default/types.xml``.

   .. code:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <object name="portal_types" meta_type="Plone Types Tool">
      <object name="Folder" meta_type="Dexterity FTI" />
    </object>

   Here is an example that enables the image-behavior for Folders in ``[yourpackage]/profiles/default/types/Folder.xml``:

   .. code:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <object name="Folder" meta_type="Dexterity FTI">
     <property name="behaviors" purge="False">
      <element value="plone.app.contenttypes.behaviors.leadimage.ILeadImage"/>
     </property>
    </object>

   By adding a schema-definition to the profile you can add fields.

   .. code:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <object name="Folder" meta_type="Dexterity FTI">
     <property name="model_file">your.package.content:folder.xml</property>
     <property name="behaviors" purge="False">
      <element value="plone.app.contenttypes.behaviors.leadimage.ILeadImage"/>
     </property>
    </object>

   Put the schema-xml in ``your/package/content/folder.xml`` (the folder ``content`` needs a ``__init__.py``)

   .. code:: xml

    <model xmlns:security="http://namespaces.plone.org/supermodel/security"
           xmlns:marshal="http://namespaces.plone.org/supermodel/marshal"
           xmlns:form="http://namespaces.plone.org/supermodel/form"
           xmlns="http://namespaces.plone.org/supermodel/schema">
      <schema>
        <field name="teaser_title" type="zope.schema.TextLine">
          <description/>
          <required>False</required>
          <title>Teaser title</title>
        </field>
        <field name="teaser_subtitle" type="zope.schema.Text">
          <description/>
          <required>False</required>
          <title>Teaser subtitle</title>
        </field>
        <field name="teaser_details" type="plone.app.textfield.RichText">
          <description/>
          <required>False</required>
          <title>Teaser details</title>
        </field>
      </schema>
    </model>

For more complex features you should create custom behaviors and/or write your own content-types. For more information on creating custom dexterity-types or custom behaviors to extend these types with read the `dexterity documentation <http://docs.plone.org/external/plone.app.dexterity/docs/>`_.


Reordering fields provided by behaviors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO


Differences to Products.ATContentTypes
--------------------------------------

- The image of the News Item is not a field on the contenttype but a behavior that can add a image to any contenttypes (similar to http://pypi.python.org/pypi/collective.contentleadimage)
- All richtext-fields are also provided by a reuseable behavior.
- The functionality to transform (rotate and flip) images has been removed.
- There is no more field ``Location``. If you need georeferenceable consider using ``collective.geo.behaviour``
- The link on the image of the newsitem triggers an overlay
- The link-type now allows the of the variables ``${navigation_root_url}`` and ``${portal_url}`` to construct relative urls.
- The keywords-widget is not implemented and is replaced by a simple lines-widget unless you override it or use plone.app.widgets. Please see the section on widgets.


Toubleshooting
--------------

Please report issues in the bugtracker at https://github.com/plone/plone.app.contenttypes/issues.

ValueError on installing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you try to install plone.app.contenttypes < 1.1a1 in a existing site you might get the following error::

      (...)
      Module Products.GenericSetup.utils, line 509, in _importBody
      Module Products.CMFCore.exportimport.typeinfo, line 60, in _importNode
      Module Products.GenericSetup.utils, line 730, in _initProperties
    ValueError: undefined property 'schema'

Before installing plone.app.contenttypes you have to reinstall plone.app.collection to update collections to the version that uses Dexterity.


Branches
--------

The master-branch supports Plone 5 only. From this 1.2.x-releases will be cut.

The 1.1.x-branch supports Plone 4.3.x. From this 1.1.x-releases will be cut.


License
-------

GNU General Public License, version 2


Contributors
------------

* Philip Bauer <bauer@starzel.de>
* Michael Mulich <michael.mulich@gmail.com>
* Timo Stollenwerk <contact@timostollenwerk.net>
* Peter Holzer <hpeter@agitator.com>
* Patrick Gerken <gerken@starzel.de>
* Steffen Lindner <lindner@starzel.de>
* Daniel Widerin <daniel@widerin.net>
* Jens Klein <jens@bluedynamics.com>
* Joscha Krutzki <joka@jokasis.de>
* Mathias Leimgruber <m.leimgruber@4teamwork.ch>
* Matthias Broquet <mbroquet@atreal.fr>
* Wolfgang Thomas <thomas@syslab.com>
* Bo Simonsen <bo@geekworld.dk>
* Andrew Mleczko <andrew@mleczko.net>
* Roel Bruggink <roel@jaroel.nl>
* Carsten Senger <senger@rehfisch.de>
* Rafael Oliveira <rafaelbco@gmail.com>
* Martin Opstad Reistadbakk <martin@blaastolen.com>
* Nathan Van Gheem <vangheem@gmail.com>
* Johannes Raggam <raggam-nl@adm.at>
* Jamie Lentin <jm@lentin.co.uk>
* Maurits van Rees <maurits@vanrees.org>
* David Glick <david@glicksoftware.com>
* Kees Hink <keeshink@gmail.com>
* Roman Kozlovskyi <krzroman@gmail.com>

Commit message:

add warning about folderish-profile

docs/README.rst, after:

.. contents::

.. image:: http://jenkins.plone.org/job/kgs-plone.app.contenttypes-plone-5.0-python-2.7/badge/icon
    :target: http://jenkins.plone.org/job/kgs-plone.app.contenttypes-plone-5.0-python-2.7/

.. image:: https://pypip.in/d/plone.app.contenttypes/badge.png
    :target: https://crate.io/packages/plone.app.contenttypes

.. image:: https://pypip.in/v/plone.app.contenttypes/badge.png
    :target: https://crate.io/packages/plone.app.contenttypes


plone.app.contenttypes documentation
====================================

Introduction
------------



plone.app.contenttypes offers default content types for Plone based on Dexterity. This package replaces ``Products.ATContenttypes`` and will provide the default-types in Plone 5.

It contains the following types:

* Folder
* Document
* News item
* File
* Image
* Link
* Event (Using behaviors from plone.app.event)
* Collection

The main difference from a users perspective is that these types are extendable through-the-web. This means you can add or remove fields and behaviors using the control-panel "Dexterity Content Types" (``/@@dexterity-types``).

The aim is to mimick the default-types as closely as possible.

plone.app.contenttypes has been merged into the Plone 5.0 branch and will be shipped with the next Plone release: https://dev.plone.org/ticket/12344

**Warning: Using plone.app.contenttypes on a site with existing content requires migrating the sites content. Please see the chapter "Migration". It can be used on a new site without problems.**


Compatibility
-------------

Version 1.1b3 is tested with Plone 4.3.x. The versions of branch 1.1.x will stay compatible with Plone 4.3.x.

For support of Plone 4.1 and 4.2 please use version 1.0.x. Please note that they do not provide the full functionality.

The versions 1.2.x of the master-branch are compatible with Plone 5 and plone.app.widgets.


Installation
------------

Add this line in the eggs section of your ``buildout.cfg``

.. code:: ini

    eggs =
        ...
        plone.app.contenttypes

If you have a Plone site with mixed Archetypes and Dexterity content use the extra requirement ``atrefs``.

.. code:: ini

    eggs =
        ...
        plone.app.contenttypes [atrefs]

This will also install the package `plone.app.referenceablebehavior <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.app.referenceablebehavior>`_ that allows you to reference dexterity-based content from archetypes-based content. You will have to enable the behavior ``plone.app.referenceablebehavior.referenceable.IReferenceable`` for all types that need to be referenced by Archetypes-content.


What happens to existing content?
---------------------------------

If you install plone.app.contenttypes in a existing site all Archetypes-based content of the default types still exists and can be viewed but can't be edited. On installation plone.app.contenttypes removes the type-definitions for the old default-types like this:

.. code:: xml

    <object name="Document" remove="True" />

They are then replaced by new Definitions:

.. code:: xml

    <object meta_type="Dexterity FTI" name="Document" />

To make the existing content editable again you need to migrate it to Dexterity (please see the section on migration) or uninstall plone.app.contenttypes (see the section on uninstalling).

Archetypes-based content provided by add-ons (e.g. Products.PloneFormGen) will still work since only the default-types are replaced.

If you install plone.app.contenttypes on a fresh site (i.e. when no content has been edited or added) the usual default-content (Events, News, Members...) will be created as dexterity-content.


Uninstalling
------------

To remove plone.app.contenttypes and return full functionality to old content and restore the AT-based default-types you have to install the import step "Types Tool" of the current base profile. Follow the following steps:

* in the ZMI navigate to portal_setup and the tab "import"
* in "Select Profile or Snapshot" leave "Current base profile (<Name of your Plonesite>)" selected. This is usually Products.CMFPlone
* select the Types Tool (usually Step 44)
* click "import selected steps"

Any content you created based on plone.app.contenttypes will not be editable until you reinstall plone.app.contenttypes.



Dependencies
------------

* ``plone.app.dexterity >= 2.0.7``. Dexterity is shipped with Plone 4.3.x. Version pinns for Dexterity are included in Plone 4.2.x. For Plone 4.1.x you need to pin the correct version for Dexterity in your buildout. See `Installing Dexterity on older versions of Plone <http://developer.plone.org/reference_manuals/external/plone.app.dexterity/install.html#installing-dexterity-on-older-versions-of-plone>`_.

* ``plone.dexterity >= 2.2.1``. Olders version of plone.dexterity break the rss-views because plone.app.contenttypes uses behaviors for the richtext-fields.

* ``plone.app.event >= 1.1b1``. This provides the behaviors used for the event-type.

* ``plone.app.portlets >= 2.5a1``. In older version the event-portlet will not work with the new event-type.

These are the version-pinns for Plone 4.3.3:

.. code:: ini

    [buildout]
    versions = versions

    [versions]
    plone.app.event = 1.1.1
    plone.app.portlets = 2.5.1

Plone-versions before 4.3.3 need to pinn more packages:

.. code:: ini

    [buildout]
    versions = versions

    [versions]
    plone.dexterity = 2.2.1
    plone.app.dexterity = 2.0.11
    plone.schemaeditor = 1.3.5
    plone.app.event = 1.1b1
    plone.app.portlets = 2.5.1


Migration
---------

To migrate your existing content from Archetypes to Dexterity use the form at ``/@@atct_migrator``.

For migrations to work you need at least ``Products.contentmigration = 2.1.9`` and ``plone.app.intid`` (part of Plone since Plone 4.1.0).


Migrating Archetypes-based content to plone.app.contenttypes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

plone.app.contenttypes can migrate the following default types:

* Document
* Event
* File
* Folder
* Image
* Link
* News Item
* Collection

The following non-default types will also be migrated:

* The AT-based Event-type provided by plone.app.event
* The DX-based Event-type provided by plone.app.event
* The Event-type provided by plone.app.contenttypes until version 1.0
* News Items with blobs (provoded by https://github.com/plone/plone.app.blob/pull/2)
* Files and Images without blobs
* AT-based collection provided by plone.app.collection

Migrations that are coming in future versions:

* from ATTopic to Collections

Please note that migrating versions of content is not supported. Only the current state of items is migrated without any content- or workflow-history.


Migrating content that is translated with LinguaPlone
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since LinguaPlone does not support Dexterity you need to migrate from LinguaPlone to plone.app.multilingual (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.app.multilingual). The migration from Products.LinguaPlone to plone.app.multilingual should happen **before** the migration from Archetypes to plone.app.contenttypes. For details on the migration see http://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.app.multilingual#linguaplone-migration


Migrating from old versions of plone.app.contenttypes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before version 1.0a2 the content-items did not implement marker-interfaces.  They will break in newer versions since the views are now registered for these interfaces (e.g. ``plone.app.contenttypes.interfaces.IDocument``). To fix this you can call the view ``/@@fix_base_classes`` on your site-root.

Since plone.app.contenttypes 1.1a1, the Collection type uses the new Collection behavior and the Event type utilizes behaviors from `plone.app.event <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.app.event>`_. In order to upgrade:

1) First run the default profile (``plone.app.contenttypes:default``) or reinstall plone.app.contenttypes
2) Then run the upgrade steps.


Migrating default-content that was extended with archetypes.schemaextender
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The migration should warn you if any of your types are extended with archetypes.schemaextender. The data contained in these fields will be lost.

You need to implement a custom migration for your types and dexterity-behaviors for the functionality provided by the schemaextenders. This is an advanced development task and beyond the scope of this documentation.


Migrating custom content
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Custom content-types will not be touched by the migration plone.app.contenttypes and will continue to work as expected.

Future versions of plone.app.contenttypes will have with a form that allows you to migrate old custom Archetypes-content to Dexterity (you'll have to create the Dexterity-types before) .

However if you'd like to migrate your content-types to Dexterity before this feature is completed you might want to have a look at the code of plone.app.contenttypes.migration.migration.NewsItemMigrator as a blueprint for a migration.


Migrating to folderish objects or change base class for any dexterity type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. warning::

   All types will probably be folderish in Plone 5 (see https://dev.plone.org/ticket/20144). The additional profile ``folderish`` will be removed soon. Use it at your own risk!

Migration non folderish object to folderish has few steps.

Step 1: Enable folderish types
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

See `Using folderish types`_


Step 2: Update base class for existing objects
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

If you changed the base-class of existing types you might also want to upgrade the base-class of existing objects. You can use the following form for this: `PORTAL_URL/@@base_class_migrator_form`.

On this you will see checkboxes with class names and the amount of objects that are going to be updated. Select classes that you want to update and click on button `Update`.

If the migration was successful you see the info box with number of successfully updated objects or a warning with the number of skipped objects.

This form can be used to change the base-class of any dexterity-types instances.

Widgets
-------

When used in Plone 4.x plone.app.contenttypes uses the default z3c.form widgets. All widgets work as they used to with Archetypes except for the keywords-widget for which a simple linesfield is used.

It is recommended to use ``plone.app.widgets`` to switch to the widgets that will be used in Plone 5.


How to use with plone.app.widgets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO


How to override widgets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To override the default keywords-widgets with a nicer widget you can use the package `collective.z3cform.widgets <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/collective.z3cform.widgets>`_.

Add ``collective.z3cform.widgets`` to your ``buildout`` and in your own package register the override in your ``configure.zcml``:

.. code:: xml

    <adapter factory=".subjects.SubjectsFieldWidget" />

Then add a file ``subjects.py``

.. code:: python

    # -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
    from collective.z3cform.widgets.token_input_widget import TokenInputFieldWidget
    from plone.app.dexterity.behaviors.metadata import ICategorization
    from plone.app.z3cform.interfaces import IPloneFormLayer
    from z3c.form.interfaces import IFieldWidget
    from z3c.form.util import getSpecification
    from z3c.form.widget import FieldWidget
    from zope.component import adapter
    from zope.interface import implementer


    @adapter(getSpecification(ICategorization['subjects']), IPloneFormLayer)
    @implementer(IFieldWidget)
    def SubjectsFieldWidget(field, request):
        widget = FieldWidget(field, TokenInputFieldWidget(field, request))
        return widget

Once you install ``collective.z3cform.widgets`` in the quickinstaller, the new widget will then be used for all types.


Information for Addon-Developers
--------------------------------

Design decisions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The schemata for the types File, Image and Link are defined in xml-files using ``plone.supermodel``. This allows the types to be editable trough the web. The types Document, News Item, Folder and Event have no schemata at all but only use behaviors to provide their fields.


Installation as a dependency from another product
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want to add plone.app.contenttypes as a dependency from another products use the profile ``plone-content`` in your ``metadata.xml`` to have Plone populate a new site with DX-based default-content.

.. code:: xml

    <metadata>
      <version>1</version>
        <dependencies>
            <dependency>profile-plone.app.contenttypes:plone-content</dependency>
        </dependencies>
    </metadata>

If you use the profile ``default`` then the default-content in new sites will still be Archetypes-based. You'll then have to migrate that content using the migration-form ``@@atct_migrator`` or delete it by hand.


Using folderish types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. warning::

   All types will probably be folderish in Plone 5 (see https://dev.plone.org/ticket/20144). The additional profile ``folderish`` will be removed soon. Use it at your own risk!

If you want all types folderish you need to depend on the profile ``folderish`` in your own ``metadata.xml``.

.. code:: xml

    <metadata>
      <version>1</version>
        <dependencies>
            <dependency>profile-plone.app.contenttypes:folderish</dependency>
        </dependencies>
    </metadata>

You can also enable this profile by hand by applying the `folderish` profile:

- Go to portal_setup->Import;
- Select `Plone default content-types (Folderish behavior) - dexterity`
- Click  `Import all steps`

You can also migrate your existing objects to folderish types. For details see `Step 2: Update base class for existing objects`_


Extending the types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You have several options:

1. Extend the types through-the-web by adding new fields or behaviors in the types-controlpanel ``/@@dexterity-types``.

2. Extend the types with a custom type-profile that extends the existing profile with behaviors, or fields.

   You will first have to add the type to your ``[yourpackage]/profiles/default/types.xml``.

   .. code:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <object name="portal_types" meta_type="Plone Types Tool">
      <object name="Folder" meta_type="Dexterity FTI" />
    </object>

   Here is an example that enables the image-behavior for Folders in ``[yourpackage]/profiles/default/types/Folder.xml``:

   .. code:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <object name="Folder" meta_type="Dexterity FTI">
     <property name="behaviors" purge="False">
      <element value="plone.app.contenttypes.behaviors.leadimage.ILeadImage"/>
     </property>
    </object>

   By adding a schema-definition to the profile you can add fields.

   .. code:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <object name="Folder" meta_type="Dexterity FTI">
     <property name="model_file">your.package.content:folder.xml</property>
     <property name="behaviors" purge="False">
      <element value="plone.app.contenttypes.behaviors.leadimage.ILeadImage"/>
     </property>
    </object>

   Put the schema-xml in ``your/package/content/folder.xml`` (the folder ``content`` needs a ``__init__.py``)

   .. code:: xml

    <model xmlns:security="http://namespaces.plone.org/supermodel/security"
           xmlns:marshal="http://namespaces.plone.org/supermodel/marshal"
           xmlns:form="http://namespaces.plone.org/supermodel/form"
           xmlns="http://namespaces.plone.org/supermodel/schema">
      <schema>
        <field name="teaser_title" type="zope.schema.TextLine">
          <description/>
          <required>False</required>
          <title>Teaser title</title>
        </field>
        <field name="teaser_subtitle" type="zope.schema.Text">
          <description/>
          <required>False</required>
          <title>Teaser subtitle</title>
        </field>
        <field name="teaser_details" type="plone.app.textfield.RichText">
          <description/>
          <required>False</required>
          <title>Teaser details</title>
        </field>
      </schema>
    </model>

For more complex features you should create custom behaviors and/or write your own content-types. For more information on creating custom dexterity-types or custom behaviors to extend these types with read the `dexterity documentation <http://docs.plone.org/external/plone.app.dexterity/docs/>`_.


Reordering fields provided by behaviors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO


Differences to Products.ATContentTypes
--------------------------------------

- The image of the News Item is not a field on the contenttype but a behavior that can add a image to any contenttypes (similar to http://pypi.python.org/pypi/collective.contentleadimage)
- All richtext-fields are also provided by a reuseable behavior.
- The functionality to transform (rotate and flip) images has been removed.
- There is no more field ``Location``. If you need georeferenceable consider using ``collective.geo.behaviour``
- The link on the image of the newsitem triggers an overlay
- The link-type now allows the of the variables ``${navigation_root_url}`` and ``${portal_url}`` to construct relative urls.
- The keywords-widget is not implemented and is replaced by a simple lines-widget unless you override it or use plone.app.widgets. Please see the section on widgets.


Toubleshooting
--------------

Please report issues in the bugtracker at https://github.com/plone/plone.app.contenttypes/issues.

ValueError on installing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you try to install plone.app.contenttypes < 1.1a1 in a existing site you might get the following error::

      (...)
      Module Products.GenericSetup.utils, line 509, in _importBody
      Module Products.CMFCore.exportimport.typeinfo, line 60, in _importNode
      Module Products.GenericSetup.utils, line 730, in _initProperties
    ValueError: undefined property 'schema'

Before installing plone.app.contenttypes you have to reinstall plone.app.collection to update collections to the version that uses Dexterity.


Branches
--------

The master-branch supports Plone 5 only. From this 1.2.x-releases will be cut.

The 1.1.x-branch supports Plone 4.3.x. From this 1.1.x-releases will be cut.


License
-------

GNU General Public License, version 2


Contributors
------------

* Philip Bauer <bauer@starzel.de>
* Michael Mulich <michael.mulich@gmail.com>
* Timo Stollenwerk <contact@timostollenwerk.net>
* Peter Holzer <hpeter@agitator.com>
* Patrick Gerken <gerken@starzel.de>
* Steffen Lindner <lindner@starzel.de>
* Daniel Widerin <daniel@widerin.net>
* Jens Klein <jens@bluedynamics.com>
* Joscha Krutzki <joka@jokasis.de>
* Mathias Leimgruber <m.leimgruber@4teamwork.ch>
* Matthias Broquet <mbroquet@atreal.fr>
* Wolfgang Thomas <thomas@syslab.com>
* Bo Simonsen <bo@geekworld.dk>
* Andrew Mleczko <andrew@mleczko.net>
* Roel Bruggink <roel@jaroel.nl>
* Carsten Senger <senger@rehfisch.de>
* Rafael Oliveira <rafaelbco@gmail.com>
* Martin Opstad Reistadbakk <martin@blaastolen.com>
* Nathan Van Gheem <vangheem@gmail.com>
* Johannes Raggam <raggam-nl@adm.at>
* Jamie Lentin <jm@lentin.co.uk>
* Maurits van Rees <maurits@vanrees.org>
* David Glick <david@glicksoftware.com>
* Kees Hink <keeshink@gmail.com>
* Roman Kozlovskyi <krzroman@gmail.com>
